Handle errors using Rails.error (#130)
BiggerPockets/patterns: _patterns/prefer-rescuing-using-active-support-error-handler.md

---
categories: Rails
name: Handle errors using Rails.error
---

When rescuing an exception we want to:

* Send to the logs
* Report to Sentry
* Send structured data along to help debugging

By default, many Rails teams use a pattern:

```ruby
class RequestQuote
  def call(id)
    http_client.get("/api/v1/quotes/#{id}.json")
  rescue HTTPFailure => error
    logger.error("Something went wrong")
    Sentry.capture_exception(error)
  end

  def http_client
    Faraday.new { |f| f.response :raise_error }
  end
end
```

This has many disadvantages:

> 1. **Cognitively heavy** Every time we rescue, we need to decide what to do.

Reviewer: Its pet peeve but could you separate the bold text from the description?

**Cognitively heavy** - Every time we rescue, we need to decide what to do.
**Cognitively heavy**, Every time we rescue, we need to decide what to do.
**Cognitively heavy**. Every time we rescue, we need to decide what to do.

Author: 8b171c1

> 2. **Opaque intent** No abstractions mean we're not communicating effectively with humans.
> 3. **Tightly coupled, duplicate code** When we change how we log, these changes will ripple out.
> 4. **Missing structured data in logs** We can build context into the error and send this to the logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Opaque intent** No abstractions mean we're not communicating effectively with humans.
1. **Tightly coupled, duplicate code** When we change how we log, these changes will ripple out.
1. **Missing structured data in logs** We can build context into the error and send this to the logs.
```

Author: 81a6dd8

* Allows a `fallback` to be specified
* Allows [setting context](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/ErrorReporter.html#method-i-set_context)
* Operates on a [pub-sub](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/ErrorReporter.html#method-i-subscribe) architecture

## Usage

Example above becomes:

```ruby
class RequestQuotes
  def call(id)
    Rails.error.handle(HTTPFailure) do
      http_client.get("/api/v1/quotes/#{id}.json")
    end
  end
  # ... snip ...
end
```

Create subscribers:

```ruby
# config/initializers/semantic_logger.rb
Rails.error.subscribe(ErrorHandler::SemanticLogger.new)

# config/initializers/sentry.rb
Rails.error.subscribe(Sentry::Rails::ErrorSubscriber.new)
```

And it just works.

## Which method do I use?

Three options:

* `#handle` - most common. Rescues the exception and swallows it. `warning` severity.
* `#record` - rescues, but then reraises exception. `error` severity.
* `#report` - use with legacy code with complex error handling.

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 2: that's the markup that makes graphs

> ```mermaid

Author: https://mermaid-js.github.io/ @RajaaBoulassouak

graph TD

>     A[Exception in code] --> C{1. Is the exception</br>already rescued</br>by other code?}

Author: Make this more of a question about the existing code being complex - and give an example.

---
categories: Rails
name: Handle errors using Rails.error
---

When rescuing an exception we want to:

* Send to the logs
* Report to Sentry
* Send structured data along to help debugging

By default, many Rails teams use a pattern:

```ruby
class RequestQuote
  def call(id)
    http_client.get("/api/v1/quotes/#{id}.json")
  rescue HTTPFailure => error
    logger.error("Something went wrong")
    Sentry.capture_exception(error)
  end

  def http_client
    Faraday.new { |f| f.response :raise_error }
  end
end
```

This has many disadvantages:

1. **Messy** There are three lines of noise to wade through.

> 2. **Cognitively heavy** Should we log an error? Or just a warning? Should we send to Sentry or not? Often this overhead means developers fall into sloppy practices, don't think through error handling and it's done inconsistently or just plain wrong.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Cognitively heavy** Should we log an error? Or just a warning? Should we send to Sentry or not? Often this overhead means developers fall into sloppy practices, don't think through error handling and it's done inconsistently.
```

I think "or just plain wrong" is a bit of a bummer / aggressive and also highly subjective. Could we just ✂️ this 😅

Author: Great point @karlentwistle  - think I fell into being too ranty here. Thanks. :)
